Play by Wave
============

Once you are ready to start playing, you can invite the Bee to be a
participant in your wave by adding ``hce-bee@appspot.com``. The Bee will
create a new game for your wave and produce a greeting message including
a link to the Bee's statistics pages for your game.

When a blip is submitted (someone clicks the Done button), the Bee will
search for any commands in square brackets, attempt to parse them and
respond as necessary. The blip contents are associated with the creator
of the blip (the first participant) and commands are executed as if that
person wrote them. Parsed commands will be highlighted as such. Any
errors or warnings your commands produce will be described in an inline
blip near the command block.

Players are welcome to delete the Bee's blips to keep a tidy Wave, these
are primarily for participant information and Bee will not miss them
when they are gone.

Play by Email
=============

Email games can be played within a Bee Channel_. If you haven't done so
already, a lead storyteller for your game will need to `Register a
Channel`_ with the Bee using their Google Account. A channel supports a
single active email game at a time, and the current game can be chosen
from your Channel's administrative area under the "Play by Email"
section.

Play by IM
==========

IM games (using the XMPP/Jabber/GTalk protocol) can be played within a
Bee Channel_. If you haven't done so already, a lead storyteller for
your game you will need to `Register a Channel`_ with the Bee using
their Google Account. A channel supports a single active IM game at a
time, and the current game can be chosen from your Channel's
administrative area under the "Play by IM" section.

.. _Channel: /channel
.. _Register a Channel: /channel/new

.. vim: ai spell tw=72
